# Project-4-NBA-Draft-Machine-Learning
## Intro to the project
Our goal for this project was to find a dataset and create a model using machine learning to get an accuracy score of over 80. We chose a dataset that had college basketball stats and info and whether or not they were drafted. We decided to try and create the best model we could to predict if someone was going to get drafted or not. We started by loading in our csv and dropping columns that had too many null values, and cleaning up the data in general. Once we cleaned our data the next step was to get it into spark, so we could pull out what we wanted in our models using querys. After we had our query's all that was left was to build and optimize our models.
## Model 1
The first model was a neural network with the features(conf, GP, mp, pts, Ortg, usg, TS_per, FTM, FTA, twoPA, twoPM, TPM, TPA, drtg, bpm, oreb, dreb, ast, stl, blk, drafted). This model had two hidden layers, one with the activation function tanh, and the other with relu. The output layer had the activation function of sigmoid. The hidden layers had 12 and 6 neurons respectivly. This was the classification report for this model, Undrafted{precision : 0.98, recall : 0.96, f1-score : 0.97}, Drafted{precision : 0.17, recall : 0.34, f1-score : 0.23} and accuracy of 0.94. In conclusion while we reached the accuracy threshold of 0.80 we were not happy with how we performed in the Drafted class. This model was a good start for us to build off of.          
## Model 2
The second model was also a neural network and it's features were(GP, mp, pts, Ortg, usg, TS_per, FTM, twoPM, TPM, drtg, bpm, oreb, dreb, ast, stl, blk, drafted). This model had three hidden layers, all the activation funcions were sigmoid, they had 20, 18, 16 neurons respectivly. The outer layer in this model also had an activation function of sigmoid. The classification report was Undrafted{precision : 0.98, recall : 0.96, f1-score : 0.97}, Drafted{precision : 0.17, recall : 0.34, f1-score : 0.23} and accuracy of 0.94.
## Model 5
The fifth model was a neural network with the features(conf, GP, mp, pts, Ortg, usg, TS_per, FTM, FTA, twoPA, twoPM, TPM, TPA, drtg, bpm, oreb, dreb, ast, stl, blk, drafted). This model had two hidden layers, one with the activation function tanh, and the other with relu. The output layer had the activation function of sigmoid. The hidden layers had 30 and 20 neurons respectively. This was the classification report for this model.
Undrafted{precision : 0.99, recall : 0.96, f1-score : 0.97}, Drafted{precision: 0.26, recall : 0.65, f1-score : 0.37} and accuracy of 0.95. In conclusion, though the accuracy is high, we still will would like better precision for Drafted.
